Phiiip Morris U.S.A. Calls Proposed OSHA Indoor Air Quality Rule
'Fundamentally Flawed'; Asks Agency To Develop New Proposal
The following statement was issued February 8 by Philip Morris U.S.A.:
Philip Morris U.S.A. today asked the Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA) to withdraw its proposed rule on indoor air quality, documenting in a five-volume
brief that the proposal is fundamentally flawed. The company called upon OSHA to de-
velop a new proposal that reasonably accommodates the interests of employers, nonsmok-
ing and smoking employees and customers.
OSHA's currently-proposed rule would apply to some six million workplaces nationwide,
including bars, restaurants, hotels, motels, casinos and bowling alleys. The rule would .
require employers to either ban smoking indoorstx restrict it to "designated smoking rooms"
that are enclosed, separately ventilated and negatively pressurized. OSHA's proposed rule
essentially dictates that "you can't smoke where you work, nor work where you smoke."
February 9 is OSHA's deadline for the submission of final comments on the proposed
rule, marking the end of an unprecedented public comment period that has included more
than 105,000 written comments, six months of public hearings involving over 400 witnesses,
16,000 pages of hearing transcripts and thousands of post-hearing submissions and docu-
ments.
Philip Morris faulted OSHA for failing to take into account the economic impact of its
proposed rule, especially on small businesses. Most U.S. businesses employ fewer than 20
people, the Philip Morris brief states, and those businesses would suffer the greatest eco-
nomic hardship in trying to comply with the regulations. Of particular concern is the fact that
the proposed rule makes no special provisions for restaurants, bars and other sectors of the
hospitality industry, whose customers expect the opportunity to smoke within reasonable
limits.
State and local jurisdictions across the country -- and business owners themselves --
have already developed provisions that fairly accommodate both nonsmoking and smoking
patrons in restaurants, bars and other establishments. The proposed rule would undermine
those efforts, without taking inta account the economic impact on small businesses.
OSHA's public record confirms that the nation's small businesses have been widely
successful in developing their own workplace policies to accommodate their employees and
customers -- both those who do not smoke and those who do --without government interfer-
ence. For example, one study indicated that by 1991, 83 percent of America's small busi-
nesses had established their own smoking policies. Even by OSHA's own admission,
between 85 and 90 percent of all businesses already have smoking policies in place.
OSHA's failure to take such facts into account reflects many of the fundamental flaws
Philip Morris finds in the proposed rule. For instance:
OSHA failed to satisfy the requirement that it consider other alternatives, which
would be much more cost-effective.
OSHA failed to account for the technical and economic burdens imposed on most
businesses by the proposed rule.
OSHA failed to consider the increased regulatory burden inherent in the proposed
rule.
In Philip Morris' submission today, the company also cited serious legal, scientific and
technical problems with OSHA's proposed rule, problems that lead Philip Morris to conclude
the proposal is fundamentally flawed. Some of the problems include the following:
OSHA failed to demonstrate, as it is required to do by law, that actual environmental
tobacco smoke exposures at levels currently encountered in the workplace pose a
"significant risk of material health impairment" to workers and that the proposed rule
is necessary to substantially reduce any alleged impairment.
O~!-:.^, fa;:cd to da monstrate any basis for excluding indoor smoking from the generai
provisions of its overall proposed indoor air quality standard.
OSHA failed to consider other effective and far less burdensome ways to
accommodate workers or customers who wish to smoke.
At the outset of the hearings on its proposed rule, OSHA officials assured hearing par-
tici
ants that the A
"had no ri
enc
id
reconce
tions" and
"d
i
k
t
d t
-	
p
g
y
g
p
p
was
erm
ne
e
o
eep an
open mind." OSHA's stated intent of openness, coupled with the serious problems dis-	E
z.D
closed in this unprecedented rulemaking process, mandates that OSHA review the entire	":~
record
revise the
ro
osed rule and reissue a new
ro
osal for
bli
r
i	CP
,
p
p
p
p
pu
c
ev
ew.	F

pgNbr=1
